---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Reflects on Smart Questions
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-09-20
labels:
  - Coding Standards
  - Computer Science
---

After my first week using ESLint with IntelliJ I think that it really helps me improve my coding because it checks for errors while I am writing code. I'm finding getting green check marks are helpful in writing code that other programmers can understand.

With development tools I prefer VSCode over IntelliJ because VSCode is lighter and has more tools that I could use to write and maintain code that I write, specificially HTML CSS and Javascript for front end development. For example, for HTML and CSS I can create boilerplates easily by pressing the `!` button, and there's extensions that help me with CSS animation and colors. With IntelliJ, it is more of backend development tool from my perspective because it doesn't give you the design aspect of coding.

With regards to ES6, both VSCode and IntelliJ has ESLint to check if I'm writing clean and consice code. Though, I'm still getting used to writing for ES6 especially with arrow functions because I mistype the syntax of if which causes errors that ESLint can pick up.

Overall, my experience with ESLint with IntelliJ is comparable to ESLint with VSCode. Though VSCode includes more extensions from the marketplace and is lighter than IntelliJ because of the lack of plugins on install, IntelliJ is still a good development tool if you are developing for backend development.
